However, only 75,000 teenagers row at least once a week, which is about a third of the number who play basketball. For all over-14s participating at least once a month, the most recent survey (October 2014-September 2015) shows that basketball (367,500) has almost as many playing as rowing and sailing combined (372,500).

One example of the effect of lack of funding has on Team GB was seen during the qualifying for EuroBasket 2015. The veteran player Kieron Achara revealed that a preparation camp had to be cancelled because it cost too much. Also, the team, by nature very tall, had to travel on a budget airline with cramped leg-room and were forced to sleep in tiny beds at the event, living on “£15 a day”. Team GB were eliminated after losing their four games against Bosnia-Hezergovina and Iceland.

The funding was cut because Team GB basketball’s performance at the Olympics was perceived as poor – the men and women’s teams won just one of 10 games. And now Team GB basketball will not be represented in Rio De Janeiro this summer after failing to qualify.

However, Britain’s last remaining NBA player, Luol Deng, argues that Team GB’s performances are not as bad as they look. And speaking  to the Independent on Sunday in  November, he lamented a missed opportunity for continued growth of the sport.

“[Missing Rio is] really upsetting for me,” said Deng (above), who plays for the Miami Heat. “Last time we only won one game but people don’t  realise the progress we made. Four years before we were in Group C, the worst teams in Europe, before that we didn’t have a team. In the Olympics we played [silver medallists] Spain and lost by a point.

“All people did was look at results, but we were losing to the best in the world. We did that in four years.”

Reaching his arm to full stretch he added: “The US are way up here, Spain are a bit lower and all the other teams are here – we were right there. But they just looked at the score. It hurts a lot. I really feel we missed an opportunity.

“The potential is there. I tried my hardest to help the growth of the game, I just feel more could be done. A lot of kids love basketball, but as they get older there’s nowhere to turn. They stop playing.

“I always say that if there’s a kid that’s really good then get him out of [the UK] and bring him to the US. That’s not me trying to take him away from his family, but to give him a better chance of reaching his dream. If I’d have stayed in the UK for longer then came [later] and went to a smaller school, then my path would have been much different.”
